Chef Jason’s Kitchen

           
Home
About
Recipes
Chef’s Tips
               
Spanish Tofu Scramble

April 7, 2025

img/spanish-tofu-scramble.png

Servings: 3-4</h4>

Ingredients</h5>

2 tablespoons of neutral oil, such as grape seed or avocado
1/2 red, white, or yellow onion, small diced
1/2 green or red bell pepper, small diced
1/2 tomato, small diced or 1/2 cup quartered grape or cherry tomatoes
One 14-ounce block extra firm tofu
1 teaspoon chili powder
1 teaspoon cumin powder
1 teaspoon garlic powder
1/2 teaspoon turmeric (great nutritional value. Used to achieve egg-like color)
2 tablespoons nutritional yeast
2-3 teaspoons kala namak (black sulfur salt)
Cracked black pepper to taste
1/2 cup cilantro, rough chopped
Optional: handful of baby spinach
1/2 cup plant-based shredded cheese
4-6 tortillas, warmed
Toppings: sliced avocado, salsa, plant-based sour cream
            

Instructions

Take the tofu and lightly press out the water with both hands. This also can be achieved by wrapping the tofu with paper towels, then giving it 1-2 good presses.  A little leftover water is okay—this should be a quick process and the tofu shouldn’t be too dry (I have had my share of extra dry tofu scrambles). I find a quick press along with sautéing it makes for a delicious tofu scramble.

Starting with a hot pan, add oil, onion, and bell pepper, and sauté until translucent. Then crumble the tofu into the pan with your hands; any larger chunks can be broken up with a spatula. Add all spices and nutritional yeast. Make sure you get all the spices mixed well into the tofu. Then toss in the tomatoes, cilantro, and spinach. Once the spinach is wilted, sprinkle vegan shredded cheese on top. Turn off heat, then cover; leave covered for 2 minutes. The residual heat will melt the plant-based cheese without drying out the tofu.

Spoon your Spanish tofu scramble on a plate, add suggested toppings. Serve with warm tortillas.

Chef’s TIP: Add the tomatoes after the tofu so they stay fresh.
            
copyright 2020
            
jason@ajasono.com

        